---
oip: 3
title: Layer 1 and 2 Deployment
author: Martin Schenck (@schemar)
discussions-to: https://discuss.openst.org/t/oip-3-layer-1-and-2-deployment/48
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Mosaic
created: 2018-11-22
requires: None
replaces: None
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged OIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new OIPs. Note that an OIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your OIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `OIP-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less. Thanks to the Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) process for the model we borrow here.-->

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the OIP.-->
Specification of the required steps it takes to deploy a new meta-blockchain.

## Abstract
<!--A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.-->
In order to deploy a new meta-blockchain, multiple steps are required to be executed in a predefined order. The specification will outline the required steps in the required order and also list the inputs and outputs of each step.

## Motivation
<!--The motivation is critical for OIPs that want to change the OpenST protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the OIP solves. OIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.-->
To increase adoption of the OpenST protocol and tools, it is vital that they are easy to use. This OIP addresses the process of deploying a new meta-blockchain. This is important to test the OpenST tools in a real setting. However, it is equally important to enable developers to set-up a development environment with a meta-blockchain as easily as possible.
This OIP should explain in understandable words how to get to a meta-blockchain up and running.

## Specification
<!--The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations.-->
Main Steps:

1. Set-up origin accounts and contracts
1. 

### Step 0: Prerequisites

- A deployment key that owns ETH and OST.
- A list of validators that own OST that they will stake.
  - Will be addresses managed and unlocked by the nodes.
- OST address on origin.
- Core identifier.
- An origin node that exposes RPC (locally).
- Parity to start auxiliary.

### Step 1: Origin Contracts

Inputs:

- Origin deployment key.
  - The deployment key must own ETH and OST.
- A list of validator keys and stakes (in OST).
- OST address on origin.
- Core identifier.
  - The core identifier starts with `0...01` for ethereum main net.

Outputs:

- `Stake` address on origin.
- `OriginCore` address on origin.

Required steps:

1. Deploy `OriginCore` smart contract on origin (deploys also `Stake`).
2. Deploy an `OSTGateway` on origin.

### Step 2: Staking

Inputs:

- `Stake` address on origin (output of step 1).

Outputs:

- Origin block hash where set-up on origin is done.

Required steps:

1. Validator addresses approve transfer of staking amount to `Stake` contract.
2. Initialize the `Stake` contract (will transfer validator stakes).
3. Deployment key transfers OST to the `OSTGateway` as stake for base tokens on the auxiliary chain.
4. Validators transfer OST to the `OSTGateway` as stake for base tokens on the auxiliary chain.

### Step 3: Starting Auxiliary

Inputs:

- Core identifier (prerequisite).
- OST address on origin (prerequisite).
- Address of `OriginCore` on origin (output of step 1).

Outputs:

- `KernelGateway` address on auxiliary.
- `PollingPlace` address on auxiliary.
- `OriginBlockStore` address on auxiliary.
- `AuxiliaryBlockStore` address on auxiliary.
- An auxiliary node.

Required steps:

1. Create genesis auxiliary block using parity aurora.
2. Initialize auxiliary contracts

### Step 4: Initializing Auxiliary

Inputs:

- Address of `OriginCore` (output of step 1).
- Origin block hash where set-up on origin was done (output of step 2).
- Address of `KernelGateway` (output of step 3).

Required steps:

1. Prove `K0` on auxiliary. This will enable the set of validators on auxiliary.
2. Mint base token for validators and block proposers.
3. Increase gas cost of auxiliary chain.
4. Disable initial block proposer.

### Step 5: Start 🥃 Rum Nodes

Inputs:

- RPC endpoint for origin (prerequisite).
- Addresses of a validator on origin and auxiliary and the passwords to unlock them on the respective node (prerequisite).
- RPC endpoint for auxiliary (output of step 3).
- Address of `KernelGateway` (output of step 3).
- Address of `PollingPlace` (output of step 3).
- Address of `OriginBlockStore` (output of step 3).
- Address of `AuxiliaryBlockStore` (output of step 3).

Required steps:

1. Run `rum` with the configuration of addresses and nodes.
