---
oip: 4
title: Releases Versioning Specification
author:  Francesco Pacella <f@ost.com>
discussions-to: -
status: Draft
type: Meta
category -
created: 2018-11-23
requires : -
replaces : -
---

#Releases Versioning Specification

##Simple Summary
We need to establish a new consistent versioning standard for OpenST releases going forward and agree on the versioning logic for Mosaic and BrandedToken and other repositories releases as well.

##Abstract
We started in November 2017 with an initial unique release stream, being OpenST. The first version was released under the name of 0.9.0. The versions that followed did not followed the common standard for releases, utilizing PATCH level to actually address MINOR level releases. 
Referring here to standards as per https://semver.org/.
The unique stream of releases has later split into three identifiable streams, which are independent from a release perspective. As the initial releases of the newly identified streams are imminent, the proper standard for release versioning shall be addressed at this point. 

##Motivation
We want to be clear, consistent and aligned with standards to facilitate the understanding of our development progresses for everyone.

##Specification
a. OpenST latest release version has been 0.9.4. The proposal is to move with next release to 0.10.0 and then from there proceed with common versioning standards (https://semver.org/).
b. BrandedToken stream has been generated by a branch of OpenST for logic purposes, so as the work of this stream is not starting from scratch, but continuing in parallel from OpenST stream, then the next (and first) release version shall be 0.10.0 as well, and then from there proceed with common versioning standards (https://semver.org/).
c. Mosaic stream is fresh and contains new development (exception made for Gateway and Core contracts). Seen the importance of this stream, the versioning shall start from 0.10.0. Same reasoning shall apply for new-born repositories/streams e.g. BLUE

##Rationale
- An solution is needed in order to proceed further.
- This setup allows to potentially increase the frequency of intra-releases as we will be able to address PATCHES with the third position element of the versioning.
- This Versioning standard will be in line with audience expectations versioning-wise when approaching our project.

##Backwards Compatibility
We cannot change the past of the versioning for OpenST, but our mission is to clarify it going forward.

##Implementation
Once the Versioning standard will be agreed, it will be then applied in reality at the moment of the release and for outside communication to the public and different stakeholders. 
